## Overview

| Developed by | Guardrails AI |
| --- | --- |
| Date of development | Feb 15, 2024 |
| Validator type |  |
| Blog | - |
| License | Apache 2 |
| Input/Output | Output |

## Description

This validator checks that an LLM-generated summary covers the list of topics present in the document.

### Intended use

This validator is only intended for summarization. 

### Resources required

- Foundation model access keys: Yes (depending on the selected foundation model)

## Installation

```bash
$ guardrails hub install hub://guardrails/saliency_check
```

## Usage Examples

### Validating string output via Python

In this example, we apply the validator to a string output generated by an LLM.

```python
# Import Guard and Validator
from guardrails.hub import SaliencyCheck
from guardrails import Guard

# Initialize Validator
val = SaliencyCheck(
    docs_dir="/path/to/docs/dir",
    llm_callable="openai",
    on_fail="fix"
)

# Setup Guard
guard = Guard.from_string(
    validators=[val, ...],
)

guard.parse("LLM generated summary")
```

### Validating JSON output via Python

In this example, we apply the validator on the string field of a JSON output.

```python
# Import Guard and Validator
from pydantic import BaseModel
from guardrails.hub import SaliencyCheck
from guardrails import Guard

# Initialize Validator
val = SaliencyCheck(
    docs_dir="/path/to/docs/dir",
    llm_callable="openai",
    on_fail="fix"
)

# Create Pydantic BaseModel
class LLMOuput(BaseModel):
    summary: str = Field(
        description="LLM Generated Summary", validators=[val]
    )

# Create a Guard to check for valid Pydantic output
guard = Guard.from_pydantic(output_class=LLMOuput)

# Run LLM output generating JSON through guard
guard.parse("""
{
   "summary": "LLM generated summary"
}
""")
```

## API Reference

**`__init__(self, docs_dir, llm_callable=None, threshold=0.25, on_fail="noop")`**
<ul>

Initializes a new instance of the Validator class.

**Parameters:**

- **`docs_dir`** _(str):_ Path to the directory containing the documents.
- **`llm_callable`** _(Callable):_ Function that calls an LLM with a prompt, or `openai`
- **`threshold`** _(float):_ Threshold for overlap between topics in document and summary.
- **`on_fail`** *(str, Callable):* The policy to enact when a validator fails. If `str`, must be one of `reask`, `fix`, `filter`, `refrain`, `noop`, `exception` or `fix_reask`. Otherwise, must be a function that is called when the validator fails.

</ul>

<br>

**`__call__(self, value, metadata={}) → ValidationOutcome`**

<ul>

Validates the given `value` using the rules defined in this validator, relying on the `metadata` provided to customize the validation process. This method is automatically invoked by `guard.parse(...)`, ensuring the validation logic is applied to the input data.

Note:

1. This method should not be called directly by the user. Instead, invoke `guard.parse(...)` where this method will be called internally for each associated Validator.
2. When invoking `guard.parse(...)`, ensure to pass the appropriate `metadata` dictionary that includes keys and values required by this validator. If `guard` is associated with multiple validators, combine all necessary metadata into a single dictionary.

**Parameters:**

- **`value`** *(Any):* The input value to validate.
- **`metadata`** *(dict):* A dictionary containing metadata required for validation. No additional metadata keys are needed for this validator.

</ul>
